our topic for today is the dns records
in our last lesson we looked at the dns
if you haven't watched that video i
would recommend you to go and watch that
first
in this one we are going to focus on the
authoritative name servers
or mainly the information that is stored
there the information stored at the
authoritative name servers is called the
dns records
or the zone files if you have ever
purchased or set up a domain
there's a high chance that you might
have set up the dns records
some of the common dns records are the a
record
c name mx txt and the ns
in this lesson we're going to look at
each of these and we'll understand what
is the purpose and the usage of each of
these records
so first of all we have the a record it
stands for the address record and it
refers to the ip address of the
server to which this domain points so
let me take an example let's say that we
have a domain called the roadmap.sh
and here is the dns records for this
domain name in our first column we have
the type
which is the a record then we have the
name
which is at so add reference to the root
domain so
roadmap.sh then we have the ip address
of the server as a value
and then we have the ttl or time to live
which is the caching time for this
record and the seconds
so this means that the ip address can be
cached at the client
or any other places for this number of
seconds
we can have an a record for a subdomain
also so in this case now app.roadmap.sh
points to a different ip address
and also we can have multiple a records
for a domain or a sub domain
which are pointing to different servers
the next one we have is the c
name record which stands for the
canonical name record
it is an alias record which allows us to
point a domain or a sub domain from our
domain to some external domain
or to one of the current domains let's
take our existing example of
roadmap.such
now if you look at the records we are
handling the roadmap.sh and the
app.roadmap.sh
but we are not handling the request to
the www.roadmap.sh
now to handle that we can either add
another a record with that www
and pointing to the ip address or we can
add a cname record
so now we have that whenever the user
opens www.roadmap.ch
it will find the canonical name which is
roadmap.sh and return the ip address for
that
now since the roadmap protested is the
naked domain
we can point it to at also we can also
use external domains
so let's say that we have
blog.roadmap.sh
and we want to point it to
cameronml.info
so now in this case we are taking the
blog as a c
name and it is pointing to the external
domain comradeon.info
the next one we have is the mx record
which stands for the mail
exchanger record and it helps in routing
the emails to the relevant servers
let's take the same example of roadmap.s
so i might have a
mx record which looks like this so in
this case now if you look at the name we
have the
at or the naked domain which means that
any emails which are sent to the naked
domain
let's say kamlan at roadmap dot sh they
will be handled by the server at
mail.example.com now a website might
have multiple
mx records so in this case now we have
two
servers handling the email sent to the
naked domain but how does it decide that
which server is going to handle the
request
so for that we have a priority number
assigned to each of the hosts
so when an email is received it will try
to resolve it by the lowest priority
number
if the server is working and it could be
used for sending the email
then it will be used otherwise it will
fall back to the next lowest priority
number
and use that and it will continue till
it finds the server which could resolve
the request
the next one we have is the txt record
or the text record
which allows us to assign some arbitrary
text to a domain name
so for example here i have some
arbitrary text record with the value set
to some dummy text
assigned to the domain name text record
is mostly used by the third party
services which want to verify the
ownership of the domain name
so for example if you have used aws ses
for sending the emails
they give you a special code to put in
the text record
and then they fetch it from the domain
name to verify that if you
actually own the website or not and the
last one we have is the ns record
or the name server record which just
give you the location of the
authoritative name servers which is the
place where the
domain information is located so for
example here is the
sample and the stackers for domain as
you can see we have two ns records
ns1.example.com
and ns2.example.com there are several
other types of dns records also
but these are the ones that are most
commonly used for now let's look at how
to inspect the dns records so if you
want to check the dns records for some
domain name
or a website you can either check that
from the portal given to you by the
place where you purchase the website or
you can also use one of the commands
such as host dig and the ns lookup
i will be covering host for now but in
future i want to do a detailed video on
dig
which is much more powerful than host
and has a lot of options which help us
in debugging the issues with the dns
the way you use host is you run the host
and then you give it the option
t with the type of dns tracker that you
want for example if i want to get the
txt record i will give the txt
and then we give it the domain name for
which we want the records
and now if we run this command in the
console it will give us all the text
records
associated to the domain roadmap.sh so
here i have two text records
the first one is for google site
verification and the second one is for
gendex which i'm using for the emails
similarly we can use it for
other dns records also so for example if
i want to get the ip address associated
to the domain roadmap.reset
i can run the host command with that
type
a and run this command and i will get
the ip address that is given to this
domain name
and with that our lesson comes to an end
if you have any questions or comments
leave them below and i will see you in
the next lesson